---


---

<h1 id="usage-and-implementation-in-various-languages">Usage and Implementation in Various Languages</h1>
<h2 id="stack-in-c-stl">Stack in C++ STL</h2>
<p>Stacks are a type of container adaptors with LIFO(Last In First Out) type of working, where a new element is added at one end and (top) an element is removed from that end only.</p>
<p>The functions associated with stack are:<br>
empty() – Returns whether the stack is empty – Time Complexity : O(1)<br>
size() – Returns the size of the stack – Time Complexity : O(1)<br>
top() – Returns a reference to the top most element of the stack – Time Complexity : O(1)<br>
push(g) – Adds the element ‘g’ at the top of the stack – Time Complexity : O(1)<br>
pop() – Deletes the top most element of the stack – Time Complexity : O(1)</p>
<h2 id="stack-class-in-java">Stack Class in Java</h2>
<p>Java Collection framework provides a Stack class which models and implements Stack data structure. The class is based on the basic principle of last-in-first-out. In addition to the basic push and pop operations, the class provides three more functions of empty, search and peek.<br>
<strong>Methods in Stack class</strong></p>
<ol>
<li><strong>Object push(<em>Object element</em>)</strong> : Pushes an element on the top of the stack.</li>
<li><strong>Object pop()</strong> : Removes and returns the top element of the stack. An ‘EmptyStackException’ exception is thrown if we call pop() when the invoking stack is empty.</li>
<li>**Object peek() ** : Returns the element on the top of the stack, but does not remove it.</li>
<li>**boolean empty() ** : It returns true if nothing is on the top of the stack. Else, returns false.</li>
<li><strong>int search(<em>Object element</em>)</strong> : It determines whether an object exists in the stack. If the element is found, it returns the position of the element from the top of the stack. Else, it returns -1.</li>
</ol>

